# Grocery List Generator

This project created an algorithm that generates grocery lists based on user's previous grocery purchases. The project uses dictionaries, lists, and the statistics library to generate the most likely items, quantities, and dates of grocery purchases. The datetime library is used to store and manipulate data regarding dates. It also includes styling using the Rich library.

I encountered many challenges over the course of this project, nearly all of which are tied to time constraints. The most prominent challenege was deciding what method I want to use to generate predictions. Initially, I wanted to create a machine learning algorithm, but opted instead to use the statistics library to save time. I wanted to include several features that I was unable to such as users correcting lists (both inputted and generated) and only generating lists for future purchases. Moreover, I also initially hoped to create a web-app instead of using Rich styling.

The project is run entirely on the terminal. When the program runs, it will prompt the user to take an action (input a list, generate a list, or exit the program). Users must input more than one list in order to generate a list. When the user selects to input, they will be prompted to enter a list date and items repeatedly until they are finished inputting items. They will then be prompted to take an action again. If you opt to generate a list before inputting multiple lists, you will be prompted to input another list. Selecting to exit will end the program. Note that in order to generate a list, there must be items in common between the inputted lists.

The program is heavily dependent on user input and is inflexible in terms of typos or other errors in user input. For example, misspelling an item between purchases will create an entirely new key. This is a flaw I would hope to improve upon in future iterations of the project.

Overall, while there are certainly improvements that could be made and features that ought to be implemented, I am generally proud of this program. I will almost certainly be creating a version implementing many of the sacrificed features and addressing some of the bugs independently. In the meantime, I hope you enjoy using this version! 